>> Desjardins: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JULY 10:
MOURNING AND REMEMBRANCE IN
DALLAS AS THE CITY TRIES TO
MOVE FORWARD AFTER THE MASS
SHOOTING ATTACK ON ITS POLICE.
BRITISH TOWNS THAT VOTED TO
LEAVE THE EUROPEAN UNION MAY PAY
A HIGH PRICE FOR THEIR CHOICE.
AND THE UPCOMING U.S. POLITICAL
CONVENTIONS: WHY THE RULES
MATTER SO MUCH.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
LISA DESJARDINS.
>> Desjardins: HELLO AND THANKS
FOR JOINING US.
THE POLICE CHIEF IN DALLAS IS
CONVINCED THAT MASS SHOOTER
MICAH JOHNSON WAS PLOTTING
ADDITIONAL ATTACKS.
CHIEF DAVID BROWN TODAY POINTED
TO WEAPONS, EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS,
AND A JOURNAL FOUND AT JOHNSON'S
HOME AS WELL AS LETTERS THE
GUNMAN WROTE IN HIS OWN BLOOD ON
THE WALLS OF THE PARKING GARAGE
WHERE OFFICERS CORNERED AND
KILLED HIM EARLY FRIDAY.
IN DOWNTOWN DALLAS, A MAKESHIFT
MEMORIAL OUTSIDE POLICE
HEADQUARTERS CONTINUES TO GROW,
AS PEOPLE LEAVE FLOWERS,
BALLOONS, AND STUFFED ANIMALS IN
REMEMBRANCE OF THE FIVE OFFICERS
JOHNSON KILLED ON THURSDAY.
HE ALSO WOUNDED SEVEN OFFICERS
AND TWO CIVILIANS.
JOHNSON AMBUSHED OFFICERS AT A
PROTEST OVER TWO FATAL POLICE
SHOOTINGS IN OTHER CITIES LAST
WEEK, AND THIS WEEKEND, THOSE
CITIES SAW LARGE PROTESTS OF
THEIR OWN.
IN ST. PAUL, LAST NIGHT POLICE
USED SMOKE AND PEPPER SPRAY TO
DISPERSE SOME 200 PEOPLE WHO
WERE BLOCKING A SECTION OF
INTERSTATE 94.
ST. PAUL'S POLICE CHIEF SAYS TWO
DOZEN OFFICERS WERE INJURED BY
ROCKS AND BOTTLES THROWN DURING
THE DEMONSTRATION.
IN BATON ROUGE, LAST NIGHT,
POLICE ARRESTED MORE THAN 100
DEMONSTRATORS INCLUDING A
PROMINENT BLACK LIVES MATTER
ACTIVIST.
IN SPAIN TODAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA
CONDEMNED ANY VIOLENCE AGAINST
POLICE.
>> WHENEVER THOSE OF US WHO ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT FAIRNESS IN THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM ATTACK
POLICE OFFICERS, YOU ARE DOING A
DISSERVICE TO THE CAUSE.
>> Desjardins: THE PRESIDENT
WILL VISIT DALLAS TUESDAY AND
SPEAK AT AN INTERFAITH MEMORIAL
SERVICE.
OUR OWN HARI SREENIVASAN IS IN
DALLAS AND HAS MORE ON THE MOOD
OF THE CITY.
HARI?
IT'S FAR FROM BUSINESS AS USUAL
IN DOWNTOWN DALLAS WITH SEVERAL
CITY BLOCKS STILL CLOSED OFF
NEAR THE SITE OF THE SHOOTINGS.
BUT IT'S NOT JUST THE BUSINESSES
AND TOURISTS THAT ARE WAITING TO
GET BACK TO NORMAL.
IT IS THE REST OF THE CITY AS
EVEN IN THIS WEEK OF TERRIBLE
GRIEF, PASTOR MICHAEL WATERS
TRIED TO DELIVER THE GOOD NEWS
TO HIS CONGREGATION AT JOY
TABERNACLE A.M.E. CHURCH IN
SOUTH DALLAS TODAY, INCLUDING A
PRAYER FOR DALLAS POLICE.
STRENGTHENED HIM ARMS TO PROVIDE
STRENGTH AND SUPPORT
PARTICULARLY TO THE DALLAS
POLICE
WATERS WAS ONE OF THOSE
PROTESTERS WHO GATHERED IN THE
STREETS OF DOWNTOWN DALLAS ON
THURSDAY IN THE WAKE OF TWO
SMARTPHONE VIDEOS THAT SHINED A
LIGHT, AGAIN, ON THE USE OF
LETHAL POLICE FORCE.
THEN, THE PASTOR HEARD THE
GUNSHOTS.
A MAN WAS FIRING OVER AND OVER
INTO THE NIGHT, MURDERING FIVE
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS AND
WOUNDING SEVEN OTHERS.
>> TO SEE LIVES TAKEN SO
CARELESSLY AND BRUTALLY I THINK
IT STILL HAS BROKEN OUR HEARTS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE VIOLENCE
PERPETRATED BY A LONE, AFRICAN-
AMERICAN GUNMAN QUICKLY PUT A
FOCUS ON RACE.
>> WE ARE A NATION THAT BEGAN TO
PROCLAIM ITSELF AS POST-RACIAL,
AND RECENT YEARS HAVE SHOWN US
TO BE ALL BUT POST-RACIAL.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DALLAS
POLICE DEPARTMENT HAS RECEIVED
PRAISE FOR ITS COMMUNITY
POLICING APPROACH, WHICH HAS
REDUCED THE NUMBER OF ARRESTS
AND OFFICER INVOLVED SHOOTINGS
AND HAS DECREASED COMPLAINTS
ABOUT EXCESSIVE USE OF FORCE.
BUT THE PASTOR BELIEVES THE CITY
HAS A LOT MORE WORK TO DO,
ESPECIALLY TO ADDRESS POVERTY.
>> I'D SAY MAINLY THE CONCERN IS
DO YOU SEE BEYOND ALL OF THE
BUILDINGS AND SHINY THINGS WE
HAVE IN OUR CITY, THAT THERE'S A
LARGE SUBSET-- IN FACT I WOULD
SAY AT LEAST HALF OF THE CITY--
THAT STRUGGLING DAY IN AND DAY
OUT TO MAKE ENDS MEET.
>> Sreenivasan: "DALLAS
OBSERVER" COLUMNIST JIM SCHUTZE
HAS BEEN CHRONICLING AND
CRITIQUING THE CITY'S RISING
POVERTY RATE, WHICH HAS RISEN BY
40% SINCE THE YEAR 2000.
>> DALLAS HAS HUGE UNRESOLVED
ISSUES.
WE HAVE THE HIGHEST CHILD
POVERTY RATE OF ANY MAJOR CITY
IN THE COUNTRY.
WE'RE VERY, VERY SEGREGATED.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO SCRATCH TOO
DEEP BENEATH THE SURFACE TO FIND
THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: WE MET SCHUTZE
AT DEALEY PLAZA, WHERE PRESIDENT
JOHN F. KENNEDY WAS ASSASSINATED
53 YEARS AGO.
WE'RE STANDING HERE IN A PLACE
THAT FOR BETTER AND FOR WORSE IS
PART OF DALLAS' IDENTITY.
WHAT HAPPENED FROM HERE, HOW DID
THIS CITY CHANGE?
>> DALLAS WAS CRAZY BEFORE IT
HAPPENED, AND THE ASSASSINATION
EMPOWERED LEGITIMACY TO MORE
MODERATE ELEMENTS.
I THINK DALLAS ACHIEVED A LOT OF
SELF CONTROL AND GREW UP A LOT
AFTER THE ASSASSINATION, AND ONE
HOPES THAT THIS HORRIBLE EVENT
WILL HAVE THAT SAME KIND OF
CATHARTIC EFFECT.
>> Sreenivasan: A GADFLY TO CITY
GOVERNMENT, SCHUTZE SAYS THE
VIOLENT SITUATION DOWNTOWN LAST
WEEK COULD HAVE BEEN WORSE.
>> THE FORCES OF ANGER AND
INJUSTICE AND RESENTMENT ARE OUT
THERE, AND THEY COULD IGNITE AND
THIS COULD HAVE IGNITED IT, AND
WE WERE JUST LUCKY THAT IT
DIDN'T.
AND I MEAN LUCKY AGAIN, THAT WE
HAVE A SMART POLICE CHIEF AND AN
EFFECTIVE MAYOR, BUT STILL
LUCKY.
>> Sreenivasan: MAYOR MIKE
RAWLINGS, WHOSE POLICE
DEPARTMENT HAS SET A NATIONAL
EXAMPLE FOR REFORMS, KNOWS
POLICE MUST DO MORE TO IMPROVE
COMMUNITY RELATIONS, AS
EVIDENCED BY THE GRUESOME VIDEO
FROM ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
THAT HELPED SPARK THE DALLAS
PROTESTS.
THE VIDEO FROM JUST A COUPLE OF
DAYS AGO, THE WOMAN REACHED OUT
TO SOCIAL MEDIA TO ANYONE THAT
WOULD LISTEN, CAUSE SHE DIDN'T
FEEL LIKE THE POLICE WERE THE
ONES SHE SHOULD CALL CONSIDERING
WHAT WAS HAPPENING TO HER.
>> THOSE ARE VERY REAL FEARS,
BUT IF YOU JUST BRAND EVERYBODY
WITH POLICE, YOU FALL GUILTY TO
THE TYRANNY OF THE AVERAGE
VERSUS LOOKING AT THE BELL CURVE
OF SUCCESS AND FAILURE AND WORK
ON THOSE FAILURES AND REALLY
LAUD THE SUCCESSFUL.
WE'VE GOT TO BE ABLE TO SUPPORT
OUR POLICE OFFICERS AND PROTECT
CIVIL RIGHTS AT THE SAME.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S THE SAME
IDEA PASTOR WATERS HEARS IN THE
PHRASE "BLACK LIVES MATTER."
>> SAYING BLACK LIVES MATTER
SURELY DOES NOT MEAN THAT BLUE
LIVES DON'T MATTER.
WE VALUE OUR POLICE, AND WE'RE
GRATEFUL FOR THOSE WHO SERVE OR
COMMUNITY AND GIVE THEIR LIVES
DAILY ON BEHALF OF FREEDOM AND
JUSTICE.
BUT WE MUST SAY AND WE MUST
KNOW, THAT THERE IS SOMETHING
WRONG IN SOCIETY WHERE A BLACK
MAN IS KILLED IN A POLICE
INTERACTION EVERY 28 HOURS, AND
IT'S FOR THAT CAUSE THAT WE'RE
WORKING TO BRING ABOUT A MORE
PEACEABLE FUTURE FOR US ALL.
>> THESE THINGS WILL NOT CHANGE
OVERNIGHT.
IN FACT, THEY DIDN'T GET THIS
WAY OVERNIGHT BUT IF WE'RE
COMMITTED AND IF EACH AND EVERY
DAY WE DO OUR WORK, I BELIEVE
WE'LL GET CLOSER TO A SOLUTION
THAN WE WERE THE DAY BEFORE.
>> Desjardins: HARI SREENIVASAN
REPORTING FROM DALLAS.
THANK YOU.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WRAPPED UP HIS
ABBREVIATED VISIT TO SPAIN BY
MEETING AMERICAN MILITARY
PERSONNEL STATIONED THERE.
THE PRESIDENT TOURED THE U.S.
NAVAL STATION IN ROTA, ON THE
ATLANTIC COAST, WHERE FOUR U.S.
NAVY SHIPS THAT CARRY GUIDED
MISSILES ARE BASED IN SUPPORT OF
THE NATO ALLIANCE.
EARLIER, IN MADRID, THE
PRESIDENT MET WITH SPAIN'S KING
FELIPE AT THE ROYAL PALACE.
OBAMA IS THE FIRST AMERICAN
PRESIDENT TO VISIT SPAIN IN 15
YEARS.
IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, 2,000
PEOPLE WHO FLED THEIR HOMES DUE
TO A BRUSHFIRE ARE BEING ALLOWED
TO RETURN.
A FEW HUNDRED FIREFIGHTERS HAVE
FOUGHT THE BLAZE IN THE
FOOTHILLS NEAR SANTA CLARITA--
NORTH OF LOS ANGELES.
HIGH WINDS SPREAD THE FLAMES
ACROSS A SQUARE MILE, CONSUMING
TINDER AND DRY BRUSH PARCHED BY
THE FIVE-YEAR DROUGHT.
THE FIRE IS 20% CONTAINED AND NO
LONGER THREATENING RESIDENCES.
ITS CAUSE HAS NOT BEEN
DETERMINED.
JAPAN'S PRIME MINISTER SHINZO
ABE HAS WON A RESOUNDING VICTORY
IN TODAY'S PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTIONS.
EARLY RESULTS AND EXIT POLLS
SHOWED ABE'S RULING COALITION
CAPTURING THE TWO-THIRDS
MAJORITY IN THE UPPER HOUSE
NEEDED TO CHANGE JAPAN'S
CONSTITUTION.
ABE WANTS TO AMEND IT TO PERMIT
THE JAPANESE MILITARY TO ENGAGE
IN COMBAT OPERATIONS OVERSEAS.
THE POST-WORLD WAR II
CONSTITUTION LIMITS THE MILITARY
TO SELF-DEFENSE AND HUMANITARIAN
ROLES.
THE CONTROVERSIAL CHANGE ALSO
REQUIRES APPROVAL BY JAPAN'S
LOWER HOUSE AND A MAJORITY OF
VOTERS.
TO KEEP UP WITH THE EVENTS IN
DALLAS AND THE REACTION ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
FOLLOW OUR COVERAGE ONLINE AT
pbs.org/newshour, AND ON
SNAPCHAT AT PBSNEWS.
>> Desjardins: FOR MANY PARTS OF
GREAT BRITAIN, TWO WEEKS AFTER
THE NATION'S JUNE 23rd
REFERENDUM, THE COST OF EXITING
THE EUROPEAN UNION IS COMING
INTO CLEARER VIEW.
ALTHOUGH BRITAIN SENDS MORE
MONEY TO THE E.U. THAN IT
RECEIVES IN RETURN, ABOUT
$9.5 BILLION MORE A YEAR,
ECONOMICALLY DEPRESSED AREAS OF
THE U.K. HAVE BENEFITED
FINANCIALLY FROM E.U.
MEMBERSHIP.
A PRIME EXAMPLE IS CORNWALL, A
FISHING AND AGRICULTURAL REGION
ON THE SOUTHWEST COAST OF
ENGLAND.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
AMY GUTTMAN WENT THERE TO REPORT
ON THE REALIZATION OF WHAT
BREXIT MIGHT REALLY MEAN.
>> Reporter: IN SPRING AND
SUMMER, TOURISTS COME TO
CORNWALL TO VISIT THE PRETTY
PORTS THAT LINE THIS PART OF THE
SOUTHWEST COAST OF ENGLAND.
IT'S A FIVE-HOUR JOURNEY BY CAR
OR TRAIN FROM LONDON, AND
ATTRACTS PEOPLE FOR THE SEA, THE
SURF, AND THE FOOD-- FROM FISH' ยก
N CHIPS TO THE WORLD FAMOUS
CLOTTED CREAM WITH SCONES AND
CORNISH PASTIES, A MEAT AND
POTATO-STUFFED PASTRY.
500,000 PEOPLE LIVE IN NEWLYN
AND THE OTHER TOWNS THAT MAKE UP
THE COUNTY OF CORNWALL.
56.5% OF THEM VOTED LAST MONTH
TO LEAVE THE EUROPEAN UNION.
WHICH WAS A BIT SURPRISING,
CONSIDERING THIS SCENIC WAY OF
LIFE HAS RECENTLY BEEN SUSTAINED
BY E.U. SUBSIDIES.
CORNWALL RELIES ON FISHING,
FARMING AND TOURISM, ALL OF THEM
SEASONAL INDUSTRIES, AT THE
MERCY OF THE TEMPERAMENTAL
ENGLISH WEATHER.
THAT'S PARTLY WHY THE REGION
HAS, FOR DECADES, BEEN DEPENDENT
ON GOVERNMENT SUPPORT.
BECAUSE CORNWALL'S ECONOMIC
OUTPUT PER CAPITA IS LESS THAN
75% OF THE E.U. AVERAGE, IT
RECEIVES MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
E.U. AID EVERY YEAR.
CORNWALL HAS RECEIVED AROUND $90
MILLION A YEAR FROM THE E.U.
WITH ANOTHER $660 MILLION
PLEDGED THROUGH 2020. THOSE
FUNDS ARE NOW IN JEOPARDY.
THIS IS THE BIDDING FOR TODAY'S
CATCH IN NEWLYN.
ALL THE HAKE, SOLE, HADDOCK AND
OTHER FISH IS SOLD IN AN HOUR,
TO BE TRUCKED TO LONDON AND
ACROSS THE CHANNEL.
FISH WHOLESALER MATTHEW STEVENS
SUPPLIES TOP LOCAL AND LONDON
RESTAURANTS.
FIVE GENERATIONS OF HIS FAMILY
HAVE FISHED OFF CORNWALL.
HIS FATHER ESTABLISHED THEIR
FISH MERCHANT BUSINESS IN THE
1930S.
>> I LOVE DOING IT.
I'M NOT A SAILOR, MIND.
THIS IS QUITE AN EXCEPTIONAL
TRIP FOR ME TO BE ON A BOAT.
>> Reporter: THANK YOU.
WE'RE VERY GRATEFUL.
STEVENS RELIES ON A MOSTLY
EASTERN EUROPEAN STAFF, RATHER
THAN CORNISH PEOPLE, TO FILET
AND PACK HIS FISH.
THAT'S ONE REASON HE VOTED TO
REMAIN IN THE E.U.
>> I'D LOVE TO EMPLOY 80
CORNISHMEN, YOU KNOW, BUT COME
ON GUYS, WHERE ARE YOU?
YOU KNOW, COME TO ME.
WE'VE GOT WORK HERE.
>> Reporter: BESIDES SKILLED
WORKERS, THE E.U. HAS PROVIDED
STEVENS MONEY TO HELP GROW HIS
BUSINESS THROUGH A MATCH-FUNDING
GRANT WHICH GAVE HIM 45% OF THE
MONEY, ABOUT $460,000, NEEDED TO
EQUIP HIS FACTORY AND BUY NEW
MACHINERY.
IN RETURN, STEVENS WAS TASKED
WITH INCREASING REVENUE AND THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE HE EMPLOYED.
>> I'VE BEEN ABLE TO DEVELOP MY
BUSINESS FROM A STAFF OF FIVE TO
ALMOST 90 STAFF, MULTI-MULTI-
MILLION POUND TURNOVER BUSINESS
BUT I'VE BEEN ABLE TO DO THAT
WITH THE SUPPORT OF BRUSSELS, OR
THE E.U.
>> Reporter: WHILE STEVENS, NOW
70 YEARS OLD, HAS PROSPERED,
MANY FISHERMEN IN CORNWALL ARE
STRUGGLING.
MOST VOTED TO LEAVE THE E.U.
SAYING ITS CONSERVATION QUOTAS
LIMIT WHAT THEY CAN CATCH AND
SELL AND ARE BASED ON OUT OF
DATE SCIENTIFIC DATA.
THE QUOTAS ALSO REQUIRE THEM TO
OBSERVE A "DISCARD BAN," WHICH
FORCES THEM TO TOSS BACK INTO
THE OCEAN ANY FISH THEY CATCH
ABOVE THEIR QUOTAS OR ELSE RISK
FINES.
>> WE'VE GOT A REALLY SMALL
SHARE OF THE QUOTA.
>> Reporter: 23-YEAR-OLD
FISHERMAN BRACKEN PEARCE SAYS
THE QUOTAS UNFAIRLY FAVOR THE
FRENCH OVER THE BRITISH,
LIMITING THE BRITISH FISHERMEN
TO A LOWER PERCENTAGE OF THE
REGULATED FISH.
>> NOW WE GOT 200 KILOS OF
HADDOCK PER MONTH.
I COULD TAKE MY BOAT OUT IN THE
FIRST TOW AND IN 4.5 HOURS I
COULD CATCH THAT, AND IF WE WAS
ABIDING TO THE DISCARD BAN, I
WOULD HAVE TO BRING MY BOAT
STRAIGHT IN AND TIE IT UP UNTIL
THE NEXT MONTH'S BOAT WAS
ALLOCATED AND THAT WOULD PUT THE
WHOLE PORT OUT OF BUSINESS.
>> Reporter: ONCE THE U.K. EXITS
THE E.U., PEARCE IS COUNTING ON
CONTINUING TO SELL HIS FISH TO
WHOLESALERS IN EUROPE.
>> THEY BOUGHT OUR FISH BEFORE--
THE EUROPEAN UNION-- AND THEY'LL
BUY IT AFTERWARDS.
WE ALL WANT WHAT'S BEST FOR OUR
FISHING INDUSTRY, BECAUSE IT'S
WHAT PUTS FOOD ON OUR TABLE.
>> Reporter: AS WITH ITS FISHING
COMMUNITY, THERE IS DIVISION
AMONG CORNWALL'S FARMERS, TOO.
38-YEAR-OLD PAUL GEORGE IS A
THIRD GENERATION DAIRY FARMER
WHO VOTED TO LEAVE THE E.U.
>> I BELIEVE THAT OUR GOVERNMENT
WILL LOOK AFTER CORNWALL JUST AS
WELL AS THE E.U. HAS BEEN
LOOKING AFTER IT.
>> Reporter: GEORGE SELLS ALL
HIS MILK TO A EUROPEAN
COOPERATIVE CALLED ARLA, WHICH
PAYS GEORGE 20% BELOW THE PRICE
OF HIS PRODUCTION COSTS BECAUSE
GLOBAL MILK PRICES HAVE BEEN
DEPRESSED FOR YEARS.
IRONICALLY, AN E.U. SUBSIDY
HELPS HIM STAY AFLOAT.
IT'S CALLED THE "SINGLE FARM
PAYMENT," WHICH IS PAID TO A
FARMER BASED ON HOW MUCH LAND HE
OWNS.
GEORGE SAYS THE ONE SIZE FITS
ALL APPROACH ISN'T FAIR AND THAT
THE SUBSIDY SHOULD BE BASED
INSTEAD ON HOW MUCH FARMERS
PRODUCE.
>> I DON'T VALUE THE BASIC
PAYMENT SCHEME IN MY BUSINESS AS
HIGHLY AS SOME OTHER PEOPLE.
HOWEVER, EVERY LITTLE DOES COUNT
AT THE MOMENT, AND NO, I
WOULDN'T WANT TO BE WITHOUT A
SUPPORT PACKAGE.
I THINK IT'S SUPPORTING THE LESS
EFFICIENT FARMERS MORE SO THAN
THE MORE EFFICIENT FARMERS.
>> Reporter: RATHER THAN A
HANDOUT, GEORGE IS HOPING MILK
PRICES MAY RISE.
>> THE E.U. MONEY IS WELCOMED IN
ANY FORM, OF COURSE IT'S
WELCOMED.
I'M JUST SAYING TO YOU NOW THAT
I THINK THE UK ARE GOING TO
SURVIVE OUTSIDE THE E.U.
>> FARMER JAMES HOSKING WISHES
THE U.K. DID NOT VOTE TO LEAVE.
>> TUNNELS LIKE THIS WERE PUT UP
WITH FUNDING FROM THE E.U.
>> Reporter: HIS GREAT-
GRANDFATHER SET UP FENTONGOLLAN
FARM IN 1893, WHERE TODAY HE
RAISES SHEEP AND GROWS
DAFFODILS, BROCCOLI, AND OTHER
VEGETABLES.
JUST LIKE FISH WHOLESALER
MATTHEW STEVENS, HOSKING TOOK
ADVANTAGE OF AN E.U. MATCHING
GRANT PROGRAM TO BUILD AND
EXTEND PLANT NURSERIES AND
UPGRADE EQUIPMENT.
AFTER INVESTING MORE THAN
$200,000 OF HIS OWN MONEY,
HOSKING RECEIVED MATCHING FUNDS
FROM THE E.U. ON THE CONDITION
THAT HE INCREASE PRODUCTION AND
CREATE FIVE FULL TIME JOBS.
>> FOR SEVERAL YEARS, THE AMOUNT
OF MONEY WE COULD AFFORD TO GROW
OUR BUSINESS WAS ACTUALLY BEING
MATCH FUNDED BY EUROPE, SO WE
WERE GROWING AT TWICE THE SPEED
WE WOULD HAVE BEEN ABLE TO GROW
AT WITHOUT IT.
>> Reporter: HE CREATED TWENTY
NEW JOBS, AND INCREASED PLANT
PRODUCTION FIVE TIMES OVER.
WITHOUT E.U. MONEY, HOSKING SAYS
HIS FARM WOULD BE HALF THE SIZE.
JUST AS IMPORTANT AS THE GRANT
FOR HIM HAS BEEN THE FREE
MIGRATION OF WORKERS ACROSS
BORDERS.
>> TODAY, THERE ARE PROBABLY
ABOUT 30 PEOPLE WORKING HERE.
THERE ARE SORT OF 15 OF OUR
LOCAL, IF YOU LIKE, CORNISH
PEOPLE HERE AND THEN PROBABLY 15
OR 20 EASTERN EUROPEANS HERE ARE
THE MOMENT.
I VOTED IN.
A LOT OF PEOPLE HERE, NOW SAID
WELL ACTUALLY, I WAS DOING IT
REALLY AS A PROTEST.
THAT WE WERE NOT HAPPY.
>> ALL OF US KNOW THE EUROPEAN
UNION ISN'T PERFECT AND NEEDS
REFORM.
>> Reporter: FIGURING OUT WHAT
COMES NEXT IS PART OF SARAH
NEWTON'S JOB.
SHE'S A CONSERVATIVE MEMBER OF
PARLIAMENT FROM CORNWALL WHO
VOTED TO REMAIN IN THE E.U.
BEYOND SUBSIDIES FOR THE FARMERS
AND FISHERMAN, E.U. MONEY PAID
FOR NEW ROADS AND RAIL LINE AND
HIGH SPEED BROADBAND INTERNET
SERVICE.
IN NEWTON'S CONSTITUENCY, THE
TOWNS OF TRURO AND FALMOUTH
DEVIATED FROM THE REST OF THE
COUNTY AND VOTED TO REMAIN.
THERE, E.U. FUNDS HELPED CREATE
A YACHT PRODUCTION FACILITY, A
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER, AND
CONVERTED AN OLD FISHING WHARF
INTO AN OUTPOST FOR CREATIVE AND
TECHNOLOGY BUSINESSES.
>> WE'RE SEEING INVESTMENT AND
GROWTH IN THE DIGITAL ECONOMY.
BUSINESSES COMING HERE BECAUSE
THEY CAN BE BASED FROM HERE AND
WORK WITH PEOPLE ALL OVER THE
WORLD.
>> Reporter: SHORTLY AFTER
CORNISH VOTERS DECIDED TO LEAVE
THE E.U., THE COUNTY COUNCIL
SOUGHT ASSURANCES THAT E.U.
FUNDING WOULD CONTINUE.
SO, WHAT HAPPENS NOW WITH MANY
OF THESE E.U. FUNDED BUSINESSES
AND PROJECTS?
>> THE MONEY THAT'S ALREADY BEEN
COMMITTED, PEOPLE WILL RECEIVE.
THE BIG CHALLENGE NOW, IS FOR ME
TO MAKE SURE THAT THE BRITISH
GOVERNMENT ACTUALLY REPLACE THAT
MONEY.
>> Reporter: DO YOU THINK IT'S
MORE THAN A LITTLE HYPOCRITICAL
THAT THIS REGION VOTED
OVERWHELMINGLY TO LEAVE AND THE
VERY NEXT DAY THERE WAS AN
OUTCRY FROM THE CORNISH PEOPLES,
SAYING, ' ยกOH, BUT CAN WE KEEP
THE
MONEY?'
>> THE WHOLE IDEA OF SOVEREIGNTY
WAS REALLY IMPORTANT AND THAT
WAS MORE IMPORTANT THAN THE
MONEY THAT CORNWALL RECEIVES.
I PERSONALLY FELT RATHER
DISAPPOINTED WITH THE LEADERSHIP
OF CORNWALL COUNCIL.
>> Reporter: DESPITE BEING ON
THE LOSING END OF LAST MONTH'S
BREXIT VOTE, NEWTON DOESN'T
BELIEVE THERE SHOULD BE A SECOND
REFERENDUM.
>> NOW, THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
IS TO STABILIZE THE BRITISH
ECONOMY AND NEGOTIATE THE BEST
POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIP WE CAN
HAVE WITH THE EUROPEAN UNION.
>> Reporter: THE FRAYED
RELATIONSHIP WORRIES GARRY
BARTER, A 27 YEAR OLD
ENTREPRENEUR WHO RETURNED TO
CORNWALL TWO YEARS AGO.
HE OBTAINED A BUSINESS DEGREE IN
A PROGRAM PAID FOR BY THE E.U.
AT FALMOUTH UNIVERSITY, WHERE
MANY GRADUATES ARE FINDING JOBS
IN A DEVELOPING LOCAL HUB OF
INTERNET-BASED COMPANIES.
>> FALMOUTH WAS ALMOST A GHOST
TOWN.
THERE WASN'T A LOT GOING ON
THERE FOR THE YOUNGER
GENERATION, AND NOW ACTUALLY,
THE WHOLE TOWN IS THRIVING.
>> Reporter: BARTER CO-FOUNDED
HERTZIAN, A BUSINESS THAT USES
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TO
ANALYZE CUSTOMER FEEDBACK, SUCH
AS USER REVIEWS FOR MOBILE
GAMES.
HE NOW HAS FIVE EMPLOYEES, BUT
BARTER FEARS A BREXIT FROM THE
E.U. WILL WEAKEN A MAGNET FOR
YOUNG TALENT.
>> THE GROWTH OF THE UNIVERSITY
HAS BEEN FUNDAMENTAL TO US BEING
ABLE TO GROW.
BY REMOVING THE E.U. FUNDING, IT
COULD REALLY HARM THE NEW
BUSINESSES IN THE AREA.
>> Reporter: ONCE THE E.U.
FUNDING DROPS, IT WILL BE UP TO
THE FISHERMEN, FARMERS, AND
YOUNG ENTREPRENEURS LIKE GARRY
BARTER TO MAKE THE SEEDS OF THAT
INVESTMENT GROW.
>> I THINK IF THE FUNDING DOES
DRY UP, AND IT'S NOT REPLACED,
THEN YES, I THINK WE WILL HAVE
TO LOOK AT RELOCATING.
WE WANT TO CREATE THE CORNISH
JOBS AND ALSO SUPPLEMENT THEM
AND BRING NEW PEOPLE TO THE
AREA.
>> Desjardins: IN JUST EIGHT
DAYS, ON JULY 18, THE FIRST OF
THIS SUMMER'S MAJOR PARTY
NATIONAL CONVENTIONS BEGINS WHEN
REPUBLICANS GATHER IN CLEVELAND.
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS WILL WATCH
THE POMP AND CIRCUMSTANCE AND
SPEECHES, BUT BEFORE ALL THAT
HITS THE AIRWAVES, A CRITICAL--
AND THIS YEAR MAYBE EVEN MORE
DRAMATIC-- BATTLE BEGINS: THE
BEHIND-THE-SCENES FIGHT OVER THE
RULES.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JEFF GREENFIELD TAKES A LOOK AT
HOW THIS PARTICULAR CONVENTION
PROCESS HAS MATTERED IN THE
PAST.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, THE GARDEN
STATE, PROUDLY CASTS ALL ITS
VOTES FOR THE NEXT PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, MITT ROMNEY!
>> Reporter: THESE ARE THE
CONVENTION MOMENTS THAT TAKE
CENTER STAGE, CHOOSING A
NOMINEE, THE SPEECH TO THE
NATION, THE CIRCUS-LIKE
CELEBRATIONS.
>> YOU'D LIKE US TO FIRST VOTE
TO RECONSIDER THE AMENDMENT,
THEN YOU'D LIKE US TO RETRACT
THE AMENDMENT.
>> Reporter: AND THIS IS THE
STUFF OF WHICH GLAZED EYES ARE
MADE-THE COMMITTEE MEETINGS THAT
SHAPE THE PARTY'S PLATFORM,
APPROVE CONVENTION RULES, AND
FIGHT OVER CREDENTIALS FOR THE
DELEGATES.
BUT THE FACT IS THAT WHAT
HAPPENS IN THOSE MEETINGS OFTEN
PLAYS A CRITICAL ROLE IN WHAT
HAPPENS IN ARENAS LIKE THIS ONE,
WHICH HAS SEEN FOUR CONVENTIONS
IN RECENT YEARS, AND CAN ALSO
DECIDE THE FUTURE DIRECTION OF A
PARTY.
TAKE THE QUESTION OF RULES.
IF THE FORCES OPPOSED TO DONALD
TRUMP HAVE ANY HOPE OF DERAILING
THE PRESUMPTIVE NOMINEE, IT
WOULD BE THROUGH CHANGES IN THE
CONVENTION RULES-- RULES THAT
WOULD FREE DELEGATES FROM THE
REQUIREMENT TO VOTE ON THE FIRST
BALLOT FOR THE CANDIDATE THAT
GOT THEM TO CLEVELAND-- OR RULES
THAT WOULD REQUIRE THE NOMINEE
TO WIN A 60% "SUPERMAJORITY" OF
DELEGATE VOTES.
AND KEEP THIS IN MIND, IF THE
REPUBLICANS HAD THE SAME RULES
AS THE DEMOCRATS-WITH NO "WINNER
TAKE ALL" PRIMARIES AND WITH
LARGE NUMBERS OF"
SUPERDELEGATES"-- UNELECTED
PARTY INSIDERS FREE TO VOTE AS
THEY CHOSE-- TRUMP RIGHT NOW
WOULD BE HUNDREDS OF DELEGATES
SHY OF THE NOMINATION.
RULES PLAYED A CRUCIAL ROLE IN
THE LAST CONTESTED REPUBLICAN
CONVENTION, 40 YEARS AGO.
FORMER CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR
RONALD REAGAN, CHALLENGING AN
INCUMBENT PRESIDENT, GERALD
FORD, FOR THE NOMINATION, WAS
BEHIND IN DELEGATES.
SO IN A "HAIL MARY" MOVE, REAGAN
BROKE PRECEDENT AND ANNOUNCED
HIS WOULD-BE RUNNING MATE,
PENNSYLVANIA SENATOR RICHARD
SCHWEIKER, IN ORDER TO ATTRACT
MODERATES INTO HIS COALITION.
REAGAN THEN PROPOSED A RULE THAT
WOULD REQUIRE ALL CANDIDATES TO
NAME THEIR RUNNING MATES.
HE HOPED THAT ANY FORD PICK
WOULD ALIENATE ENOUGH DELEGATES
TO DENY THE PRESIDENT A FIRST
BALLOT VICTORY.
THE RULE, KNOWN TO POLITICAL
JUNKIES AS 16 C, NARROWLY
FAILED.
FORD WON THE NOMINATION BY THE
SMALLEST OF MARGINS, BUT LOST IN
NOVEMBER TO JIMMY CARTER.
FOUR YEARS LATER, IT WAS THE
DEMOCRATS' TURN TO END A FIGHT
WITH A RULE.
TO KEEP SENATOR TED KENNEDY FROM
PULLING DELEGATES AWAY FROM
PRESIDENT CARTER, THE CONVENTION
PASSED THE "BIND AND YANK" RULE:
ANY DELEGATE BREAKING HIS OR HER
PROMISE TO THE CANDIDATE PLEDGED
IN THE PRIMARIES COULD BE PULLED
OFF THE CONVENTION FLOOR.
WHEN IT PASSED, KENNEDY'S
INSURGENCY DIED.
IN EARLIER TIMES, THE NOMINATION
SOMETIMES CAME DOWN TO A FIGHT
OVER CREDENTIALS: WHO WOULD
ACTUALLY GET TO VOTE AT THE
CONVENTION.
AT THE 1952 REPUBLICAN
CONVENTION, THREE STATES SENT
COMPETING BLOCS OF DELEGATE-ONE
GROUP PLEDGED TO GENERAL DWIGHT
EISENHOWER, THE OTHER TO SENATOR
ROBERT TAFT OF OHIO.
THE CONVENTION MACHINERY WAS
WIRED FOR TAFT, BUT THE
DELEGATES GAVE THE NOD TO IKE'S
FORCES, AND THAT'S WHAT WON HIM
THE NOMINATION.
20 YEARS LATER, IN 1972, IT WAS
THE DEMOCRATS TURN TO REJECT A
CREDENTIALS CHALLENGE TO THE
WINNER-TAKE-ALL CALIFORNIA
DELEGATION OF THE FRONTRUNNER,
SENATOR GEORGE McGOVERN, AFTER
AN IMPASSIONED PLEA BY
CALIFORNIA STATE ASSEMBLY MEMBER
WILLIE BROWN:
>> GIVE ME BACK MY DELEGATION!
>> Reporter: WITHOUT THOSE
VOTES, McGOVERN WOULD HAVE
FALLEN SHORT ON THE FIRST BALLOT
AND PROBABLY WOULD HAVE LOST THE
NOMINATION.
AS FOR PARTY PLATFORMS, YOU CAN
MEASURE HOW FAR APART THE
PARTIES ARE TODAY ON SOCIAL
ISSUES THIS WAY: THE LAST
REPUBLICAN PLATFORM SAID "THE
UNBORN CHILD HAS A FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHT TO LIFE WHICH CANNOT BE
INFRINGED."
THAT LANGUAGE ALLOWS FOR NO
EXCEPTIONS FOR AN ABORTION.
THIS YEAR'S PROPOSED DEMOCRATIC
PLATFORM SAYS THAT EVERY WOMAN
SHOULD HAVE ACCESS TO QUALITY
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CARE,
INCLUDING SAFE AND LEGAL
ABORTION.
THAT LANGUAGE ALLOWS FOR NO
RESTRICTIONS AT ALL.
SO WHEN THE PARTIES MEET IN
CLEVELAND AND PHILADELPHIA, KEEP
A CLOSE EYE ON WHAT THEIR
PLATFORMS SAY, HOW THE DELEGATES
ARE SEATED, WHAT RULES THEY WILL
PLAY BY.
THOSE COULD TURN OUT TO BE
DECISIVE FACTORS IN WHO WINDS UP
IN THE WHITE HOUSE NEXT JANUARY
AND IN THE YEARS BEYOND.
>> JOURNALIST SYDNEY SCHANBERG
HAS DIED, HE WAS KNOWN FOR
CHRONICLING THE GENOCIDE IN
CAMBODIA.
HIS REPORTING WON A PULITZER
PRIZE AND INSPIRED "THE
KILLING FIELDS."
SCHANBERG WAS 82 YEARS OLD.
TOMORROW, THE NEWSHOUR'S WILLIAM
BRANGHAM BEGINS A SIX-PART
SERIES ON THE EFFORTS TO END
THE AIDS EPIDEMIC.
PART 1 STARTS IN SAN FRANCISCO.
AND THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M LISA DESJARDINS, GOOD NIGHT.